#### 1: What is OAuth and how doses it work and why would you use it
- OAuth is a open standard for Access Delegation.
- Allows for Websites or Applactions to gain limited access to users information with out exposing user Passwords.
- It works by Allowing the Resource Owner (API server) to grand access to there resources housted on a server to a third-party client with the use of an authorization server.
- The Authorization server dose this by granding Access Tokens to the client to access the resouses. 

#### 2: What are the main Components of OAuth
- Client: The software that requests access to a resource ()
- Resource Owner: The owner of the resource who grants access to a sever
- Authorization server: The Server that generates and issues Tokens to Clients, can revoke access tokens.
- Resource Server: Server that validates and serves up the resource
#### 3: Describe the Authorization code grant flow 
1. The Client asks the User if that want to allow access to a resource
2. The User says yes
3. The Client then sends a request to the Authorization Server asking for access
4. The Authorization server replays with a URL direacting to a Sign in page
5. The Clent presents the User with the Sign in page which they then sign in to
6. The Authorization server then sends the Client a Authorization Code 
7. The Clent then sends the Authorization code to the back to the Authorization server
8. The Authorization server then sends a Access token back to the the Client
9. The client then uses the token to access a Token from the Resource Server
10. The Resource Server then sends the Token to the Authorization server to insure that the token is valid
11. The Resource Server then sends back to the Client the Data
12. The Client then sends the Data back to the User

#### 4: What is the Client ID and Client Secret
- The Client ID: Is a public identifier for an application
- A Client Secret: Is a confidential key used to authenticate the client
- Both are used in conjunction to insure secure communication between the Client and the Authorization server.

#### 5: How would you implement the Implicit grant flow
Implicit flow is no longer recomended as a secure grant flow.

It worked by navagating the user to the AuthServer and then attaching the access token to the Redirect URL fragment and sending the user to the resource.
#### 6: What is the Resource Owner
The Resource Owner is the entity for granting access to a protected resource (Example the google authorization portal). The Resource Owner interacts with the Authorization server to approve or deny access requests.

#### 7: What are Scopes
- Scopes are permissions that limit access to a user's resource. 
- Scopes are specified during the authorization request and determent what tokens are issuesd by the Authorization.
- They allow access to some resouces but not others.

#### 8: How dose OAuth Refresh tokens
- OAuth uses Refresh tokens to refresh Tokens.
- Refresh tokens allow for the retrevial of new tokens with out requireing the ueser to relog in.
- This premotes a better user experiance
- When a Access Token is created they are attached to the Access token.

#### 9: What are the security considerations when implementing OAuth

Man-in-the-Middle attacks: We must insure that our http requests are encrypted to insure no one can gain access to our tokens. 

We can use a Fast or Strong validation technieque, deciding wather or not we want to validate that the token is still valid once it reaches the Resource Server as the OAuth server or Resource Owner my have revoked access to the token before it expires.

There is a third approach, the Hybrid aproch which uses a Gateway as the middle man between the Requests and the Resource User to determen which aproch to use. 

#### 10: Difference between a Access token and a Refresh Token
- The Access token: Short lived Tokens generated by the Authorization Server to allow access to a Resource.
- The Refresh Token: Are long lived tokens that are used to obtain new access tokens with out re-authentication.
- Refresh Tokens can be stored securely and used to request new access tokens.
#### 11: What is the purpose of the redirect URI in the OAuth flow?
As I understand this is no longer a recommended flow but the redirect URI is given to a User once a Authorization server has given them access to a resource, the URI containes the Token 

#### 12: Explain the concept of state parameter in OAuth
- State Parameters are used to prevent Cross-Site request forgeries. 
- When the Clent sends a request to the AuthServer they also send a State Parameter
- The AuthServer then returns the same state parameter unchanged allowing the client to verify the responce


#### 13: What is the PKCE extension in OAuth 2.0 and why is it important?
#### 14: What are the common pitfalls when implementing OAuth?
- The implicit flows URI's and not valadating them can cause open redirect attacks
- Not securely storing client secrets and access tokens
- Not using HTTPS when communicating tokens  

#### 15: What are common use cases for OAuth
- Third Party
	- When you have one Application that needs to access the resourses of another applaction such as Yelp wanting a Gmail accounts contact list.
- First Party
	- When you have a Device or applaction that needs to connect to another service to get a resource such as a mobile applaction using an API
- More than one place log in
	- If you have a large website or collection or websites users will have to log in multaple times in sometimes diffrent looking log in screans, to permote a better user feal and prevent attacks you can use OAuth access tokens.

#### 16: Give an example of an alternative to OAuth

An example would be OIDC(OpenIdConnect) Which functions like OAuth but also provides an ID Token that links a specific token to a specific user.

#### 17: What is the difference between Public and Confidential Clients?
Confidential Clients represent internal systems that can communicate to each other. Such as two applications running on a server. When with in a secure environment they are better at keeping strings secure.

Public Clients represent external systems that may need to communacate to a secure system. Web browsers, Java-script or SPA's have a harder time keeping strings secrit

#### 18: What is the Front and Back Channels

- The Front channel is the URLs that we use to redireact the user from an AuthServer to a resource. The URL is normaly comprized of the Token as well as other paramaters. The issue with this channel is that it is posoble for the paramater to be intercepted along the way 
- The Back Channel is API's which uses HTTPS to insure that Tokens and user secriets are encrypted.

#### 19: Where can you store Tokens in a SPA
- Cookies
- Local Storage 
- Session Storage

